README.md, before:

# opentracing_rails - Unleashing opentracing for Rails

Distributed tracing instrumentation for Ruby on Rails applications based on Opentracing standard.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'opentracing_rails'
```

This gem is based on [Opentracing](https://github.com/opentracing/opentracing-ruby/) standard but is not bound to any implementation of it.
Therefore, you need to choose which implementation want to use. For instance, the [CNCF](https://www.cncf.io) project
[Jaeger](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger) and its ruby implementation [jaeger-client-ruby](https://github.com/salemove/jaeger-client-ruby).

Once you have chosen the backend, add the following lines into an initializer specifying it:

```ruby
# config/initializers/opentracing.rb

require 'jaeger/client'

OpenTracing.global_tracer = Jaeger::Client.build(
  service_name: Rails.application.class.parent_name,
  host: 'localhost',
  port: 6831)
```

Last but not least, start tracing whole incoming requests.
Add the following line into `config.ru` file as follows:

```ruby
# config.ru

use Rack::Tracer
run Rails.application
```

## Environment preparation

For running a Jaeger instance, you can use the official [All-in-one docker image](http://jaeger.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/#all-in-one-docker-image)
they provide for testing purposes. Within this image, also, you can find running the Jaeger UI running on `http://localhost:16686`.

The simplest way to start the all in one docker image is to use the pre-built image published to DockerHub (a single command line).
```bash
docker run -d -e COLLECTOR_ZIPKIN_HTTP_PORT=9411 -p5775:5775/udp -p6831:6831/udp -p6832:6832/udp \
  -p5778:5778 -p16686:16686 -p14268:14268 -p9411:9411 jaegertracing/all-in-one:latest
```


## Usage

### current_span

Opentracing_ruby defines a `current_span` method which tells the whole trace information collected until the moment.
TODO: more info, if needed. maybe classname?

### Tracking http communications

TODO: section aim description

```ruby
conn = Faraday.new(url: 'http://localhost:3001/') do |faraday|
  faraday.use Faraday::Tracer, span: current_span

  faraday.request :url_encoded
  faraday.adapter Faraday.default_adapter
end

p conn.get('/').body
```

### Tracing special operations

TODO: explain how to create a new span inside the current trace.
smth like that:

```ruby
span = @tracer.start_span('interesting_transaction,
  child_of: parent_span,
  tags: {
    'component' => 'faraday',
    'span.kind' => 'client',
    'http.method' => 'GET'
    'http.url' => 'internal'
  }
)

# do all the interesting things here

span.finish
```

### Tracking ActiveRecord

Opentracing_ruby allows to track all ActiveRecord transaction performed within a Rails application.
The only thing you need to do is to add the following line under all the controllers you want to record its traces:

```ruby
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  include OpentracingRails::Instrumenters::ActiveRecord
end

```

## Draft tasks to do in future

[ ] Add Sidekiq support
[ ] Avoid changing config.ru for adding `use Rack::Tracer`
[ ] Set railsy names to traces (for better understanding on Opentracing backend)
[ ] Perhaps add the ActiveRecord tracer within a middleware? this way it could get the whole app traffic.

Commit message:

Add zipkin as example of opentracing implementation

README.md, after:

# opentracing_rails - Unleashing opentracing for Rails

Distributed tracing instrumentation for Ruby on Rails applications based on Opentracing standard.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'opentracing_rails'
```

This gem is based on [Opentracing](https://github.com/opentracing/opentracing-ruby/) standard but is not bound to any implementation of it.
Therefore, you need to choose which implementation want to use.

Once you have chosen the backend, add the following lines into an initializer specifying it:

### Jaeger

For instance, the [CNCF](https://www.cncf.io) project [Jaeger](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger) and its ruby implementation [jaeger-client-ruby](https://github.com/salemove/jaeger-client-ruby).

```ruby
# config/initializers/opentracing.rb

require 'jaeger/client'

OpenTracing.global_tracer = Jaeger::Client.build(
  service_name: Rails.application.class.parent_name,
  host: 'localhost',
  port: 6831)
```

### Zipkin
An alternative to Jaeger, there is [Zipkin](https://zipkin.io/) which has its ruby implementation [zipking-ruby-opentracing](https://github.com/salemove/zipkin-ruby-opentracing).

```ruby
# config/initializers/opentracing.rb

require 'zipkin/tracer'
OpenTracing.global_tracer = Zipkin::Tracer.build(
  url: 'http://localhost:9411',
  service_name: Rails.application.class.parent_name)

```

Last but not least, start tracing whole incoming requests.
Add the following line into `config.ru` file as follows:

```ruby
# config.ru

use Rack::Tracer
run Rails.application
```

## Environment preparation

For running a Jaeger instance, you can use the official [All-in-one docker image](http://jaeger.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/#all-in-one-docker-image)
they provide for testing purposes. Within this image, also, you can find running the Jaeger UI running on `http://localhost:16686`.

The simplest way to start the all in one docker image is to use the pre-built image published to DockerHub (a single command line).
```bash
docker run -d -e COLLECTOR_ZIPKIN_HTTP_PORT=9411 -p5775:5775/udp -p6831:6831/udp -p6832:6832/udp \
  -p5778:5778 -p16686:16686 -p14268:14268 -p9411:9411 jaegertracing/all-in-one:latest
```


## Usage

### current_span

Opentracing_ruby defines a `current_span` method which tells the whole trace information collected until the moment.
TODO: more info, if needed. maybe classname?

### Tracking http communications

TODO: section aim description

```ruby
conn = Faraday.new(url: 'http://localhost:3001/') do |faraday|
  faraday.use Faraday::Tracer, span: current_span

  faraday.request :url_encoded
  faraday.adapter Faraday.default_adapter
end

p conn.get('/').body
```

### Tracing special operations

TODO: explain how to create a new span inside the current trace.
smth like that:

```ruby
span = @tracer.start_span('interesting_transaction,
  child_of: parent_span,
  tags: {
    'component' => 'faraday',
    'span.kind' => 'client',
    'http.method' => 'GET'
    'http.url' => 'internal'
  }
)

# do all the interesting things here

span.finish
```

### Tracking ActiveRecord

Opentracing_ruby allows to track all ActiveRecord transaction performed within a Rails application.
The only thing you need to do is to add the following line under all the controllers you want to record its traces:

```ruby
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  include OpentracingRails::Instrumenters::ActiveRecord
end

```

## Draft tasks to do in future

[ ] Add Sidekiq support
[ ] Avoid changing config.ru for adding `use Rack::Tracer`
[ ] Set railsy names to traces (for better understanding on Opentracing backend)
[ ] Perhaps add the ActiveRecord tracer within a middleware? this way it could get the whole app traffic.
